This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/ping

--------
Ping is a basic Internet program that allows a user to verify that a particular IP address exists and can accept requests.

----
Ping is used diagnostically to ensure that a host computer the user is trying to reach is actually operating.

Ping works by sending an Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) "Echo Request" to a specified interface on the Internet and waiting for a reply.

Ping can be used for troubleshooting to test connectivity and determine response time.

----
As a verb, ping meams " to get the attention of" of "to check for the presence of" another party online. The computer acronym (for Packet Internet or Inter-Network Groper) was contrived to match the submariner's term for the sound of a returned sonar pluse.

----
Tip:

To find out the dot address (i.e. 205.245.172.72) for a given domain name, Windows users can go to their command prompt screen (start/run/cmd) and enter ping xxx.yyy. (Ping will do the Domain Name System query request for you, and get the response of the dot address).

----
How ping is used in the enterprise, here are additional resources:

    - Premitting Ping ICMP Exceptions:
      Ping is a crucial security tool for any network admin.

    - Using ping command for troubleshooting Windows network connectivity:
      This will narrow down the causes of your Windows PC connectivity problems from the command link (CL) promot window. The introduction to this TCP/IP diagonostic utility will give you an understanding and syntax of how ping works, plus what it means when your "Ping Request" times out or reaches a network host.

    - What Ping doesn't tell you:
      Ping distinguishes certain states of network functionality that are the cornerstones of everyday network troubleshooting.


<EOF>

