This archive is based on: https://searchsoftwarequality.techtarget.com/definition/cookie

--------
A cookie is information that a "Web site" put on your hard disk, so that it can remember something about you at a later time.

More technically, it is information for future use that is stored by the server on the client side of a client/server communication.

Typically, a cookie records your preferences when using a particular Web site.

----
Using the Web's HTTP, each request for a Web page is independent of all other requests. For this reason, the Web page server has no memory of what page it has sent to a user previously, or anything about your previous visits.

A "cookie" is a machanism that allows the server to store its own information about a user on the user's own computer.

You can view the cookies that have been stored on your hard disk, although the content stored in each cookie may not make much sense to you. The location of the cookies depends on the browser:
    - Internet Explorer stores each cookie as a separate file under a Windows subdirectory;
    - Netscape stores all cookies in a single cookies.txt file;
    - Opera stores all cookies in a single cookies.dat file.

----
Cookies are commonly used to "rotate the banner ads" that a Web site sends, so that it dosen't keep sending the same ad as it sends you a succession of requested pages.

Cookies can also be used to cunstomize pages for you, based on your browser type or other information you may have provided the Web site.

Web users must agree to let cookies be saved for them. But, in general, it helps Web site to serve users better.








<EOF>
