This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/CIDR

--------
CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) -- also known as supernetting -- is a method of assigning Internet Protocol (IP) addresses that improves the efficiency of address distribution and replaces the previous system based on Class A, Class B and Class C networks. The initial goal of CIDR was to slow the increase of routing tables on routers across the internet and decrease the rapid exhaustion of IPv4 addresses. As a result, the number of available internet addresses has greatly increased.

The original classful network design of the internet included inefficiencies that drained the pool of unassigned IPv4 addresses faster than necessary. The classful design included the following:
    - Class A, with over 16 million identifiers;
    - Class B, with 65,535 identifiers;
    - Class C, with 254 host identifiers;

If an organization needed more than 254 host machines, it would be switched into Class B. However, this could potentially waste over 60,000 hosts if the business didn't need to use them, thus unnecessarily decreasing the availability of IPv4 addresses. CIDR was introduced by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in 1993 to fix this problem.

--------
CIDR is based on VLSM (subnetting the subnet).

CIDR addresses are made up of two sets of numbers:
    - a prefix:
      which is the biniary;
      representation of the network address, similar to what would be seen in a normal IP address.

    - a suffix:
      which declares the total number of bits in the entire address.

For exampel, CIDR notation may look like: 192.168.129.23/17, with 17 being the number of bits in the address (IPv4 addresses allow a maximum of 32 bits).

The same CIDR notation can be applied to IPv6 addresses. The only difference would be that IPv6 addresses can contain up to 128 bits.


--------
CIDR blocks:

    - CIDR blocks are groups of addresses that share the same "prefix" and contain the same number of bits.

    - The size of CIDR blocks can be determined by the length of the "prefix":
        - A short prefix allows for more addresses, therefore, forms a bigger block;
        - while a longer prefix indicates less addresses and a smaller block.

----
Blocks are initially handled by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). IANA is responsible for distributing large blocks of IP addresses to Regional Internet Registries (RIRs). These distributed large CIDR blocks are used for large geographical areas, such as North America, Africa and Europe.

Once RIR receives its block from IANA, it must create smaller CIDR bolcks to assign to Local Internet Registries (LIRs).

Blocks may continue to be devided further until they reach the end user. The size of the block assigned to an end user, is dependent on the number of individual addresses that the user will require (no waste of addresses). Most end users are assigned blocks by their Internet Service Provider (ISP).

Organizations that use multiple ISPs must receive "provider-independent blocks" directly from an RIR or LIR.


--------
Supernetting:

The combination of multiple connecting CIDR blocks into a large whole, sharing a common network prefix, is what constitutes "supernetting".


--------
CIDR notation:

IP sets aside some addresses for specific purposes. For example, several ranges such as the Class B 192.168.0.0 are set aside as "nonroutable", and are used to define a private network. Most "home broadband routers" will assign addresses from the 192.168 network for systems inside the home.

IP (Internet Protocol) also doesn't allow host identifiers of all 0s, and reserves the all 1s identifier to serve as a broadcast address (packets sent to that address will go to all hosts on the network).

----
Originally, IP addresses were assigned in four major address classes: A through C. Each class allocated one portion of a 32-bit IP address to identify the "Gateway Router" for that network (see network mask of each):
    - the first 8 bits for Class A;
    - the first 16 for Class B;
    - the first 24 for Class C.

Bits not used for the network identifier were available for specifying host identifiers for systems on that network.

----
For IPv4, the 32-bit address is broken into four groups of 8 bits each, called a "dotted quad" of numbers. A dotted quad would look like this in decimal form, 192.168.0.0, and like this in binary form, 11000000.10101000.00000000.00000000.

An IP address can be parsed into its network identifier and host identifier by applying a "network mask" to the address.

A "network mask" is a dot address, with 1s wherever a bit is used to indicate the network portion of the address. For example, network mask of a classic Class B would be written as 255.255.0.0.

----
If a network is further broken up into subnets, we speak of "subnet mask", which just adds bits to the "network mask".

If we break 192.168.0.0 into two subnets, the subnet mask gets one bit longer, and could be indicated with 255.255.128.0 (convert to binary as 11111111 11111111 10000000 00000000).

----
CIDR notation compactly indicates the network mask for an address, and adds on the total number of bits in the entire address using slash notation.

For example, 192.168.127.23/17 indicates a 17-bit network mask. Internet users can refer to a /17 network to indicate the network size without specifying an actual network mask.


--------
Hoe does CIDR work?

    - Router using CIDR use a destination address to route a packet toward a gateway.

    - Gateway can then take care of further unpacking the address based on its understanding of the details of the "supernetwork", AKA "supernet".

    - If a router knows routes for different parts of the same supernet, then it will use the most specific one, or the one with the longest network address (router use the longest match address).

In IPv6, a CIDR block always gets 64 bits for specifying network addresses.

--------
When to use supernetting:

An organization/service provider managing addressing for a large number of hosts/networks shold use "supernetting", possibly in combination with Network Adderss Translation (NAT), to partition out addresses and optimize traffic efficiency.

For example, the "supernetting" process might want to break an internal network into subnets for adminstrative purposes so each office could manage its own address space.

Or, it might need to cobble together address space from multiple CIDR blocks of different size from its ISP.


--------
Supernetting example:

    - Consider an ISP providing services to homes. It might create a /31 netowrk for every home, which means each network has only one assignable host identifier.

    - ISP might create a /16 supernet (like a virtual Class B address) of all the addresses, broken out further into regional /24 supernets.

    - Routers outside the ISP infranstructure use /16 to send packets in;
      the ISP uses the /24 to push packets toward the appropriate regional routers;
      the regional routers use the /31s to reach the home networks.


--------
Advantages of CIDR:

    - CIDR reduced the problem of wasted IPv4 address space without causing an explosion in the number of entries in a routing table.

    - CIDR also lets one routing table entry for a "supernet" represent an aggregation of networks, only one router closer to the destination actually needs to know the details.

----
CIDR is now the routing system on the internet's backbone network. Everyone ISP uses it.

CIDR is supported by:
    - the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP);
    - the prevailing exterior (interdomain) gateway protocol;
    - the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) gateway protocol.




<EOF>
