This archive is based on: https://www.theserverside.com/definition/HTML-Hypertext-Markup-Language

--------
HTML:

Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) is a text-based approach, to describe how content contained with an "HTML file" is structured.

This markup tells a Web browser how to display text, images, and other forms of multimedia on a Web page.

----
HTML is a formal recommendation by the W3C (World Wide Web Consortium), and is generally adhered to by all major Web browsers, including both desktop and mobile web browsers.

HTML5 is the latest version of the specification.


--------
HTML versions:

The following is a list of HTML versions, and the years they were created. Several iterations of each version have been released over time. This list aims to focus on significant iterations.

    - HTML 1.0 released in 1992, had very limited capability and around 20 "elements";

    - HTML 2.0 released in 1995, began to incorporate elements relating to "math functions";

    - HTML 3.2 released in 1996, dropped the "math function" initiative altogether, and fixed overlap between various "proprietary extensions";

    - HTML 4.0 released in 1997, offered three variation, which differed in the number of "deprecated elements" that were allowed;

    - HTML 4.01 released in 1999, largely the same as 4.0;

    - HTML 5 released in 2014, came after a long break in updates, because the organization that developed it (W3C) was focusing on another, parallel language called "XHTML";

    - HTML 5.1 released in 2016, aimed to more easily accommodate (adapt) various types of "media", embedding with new "tags";

    - HTML 5.2 released in 2017, aimed to be equally understandable by humans and computers;

    - HTML 5.3 released in 2019, W3C was collaborating with WHATWG on this version.


--------
History and development:

In the early days of the World Wide Web, marking up text-based documetns using HTML syntax was more than sufficient to facilitate the sharing of academic documents and technical memos.

However, as the Internet expanded beyond the walls of academia and into the homes of the general population, greater demand was placed on Webpages in terms of formatting and interactivity.

----
HTML 4.01 was released in 1999, at a time when the Internet was not yet a household name, and HTML5 was not standardized until 2014.

During this time, HTML markup drifted from the job of simply describing the ducument structure of Webpage content, into the role of also describing how content should look when a webpage displays it.

As a result, HTML4-based webpages often included information within a "tag", about:
    - what fond to use when displaying text;
    - what color should be used for the background;
    - how content should be aligned.

----
Describing within an "HTML tag" how an "HTML element" should be formatted when rendered on a Webpage, is considered an HTML antipattern (i.e., a pattern gone wrong).

HTML should generally describe how content is structured, not how it will be styled and rendered within a browser. Other markup languages are better suited to this task.

----
One major difference between HTML4 and HTML5 is that, the separation of concerns pattern is more rigorously enforced in HTML5 than it was in HTML4.

    - Within HTML5, the bold <b> and italicize <i> "tags" have been deprecated (be against)i;
    - For the paragraph (section) "tag", the align attribute has been completely removed from the HTML specification.


--------
Commonly used HTML tags:

HTML "tags" dictate the overall structure of a page, and how the "elements" within them will be displayed in the browser. Commonly used HTML "tags" include:
    - <h1> which describes a "top-level heading";
    - <h2> which describes a "second-level heading";
    - <p> which describes a "paragraph" (deprecated);
    - <table> which describes "tabular data";
    - <ol> which describes an "ordered list" of information;
    - <ul> which describes an "unordered list" of information.

----
As mentioned, there are opening and closing "tags" that surround the content they are augmenting.
    - An opening tag looks like this: <p> .
    - A closing tag is the same but contains a forward slash (/) in it, to indicate that it's the end of the given HTML "element". Closing tags look like this: </p> .


--------
Basic elements of HTML:

Using HTML, a text file is further "marked up" with additional text, describing how the document should be displayed (document structure).

To keep the "markup" separate from the actual content of the HTML file (text file), there is a special distinguishing HTML syntax that is used. There special conponents are knoqn as HTML "teg".

    - The "tags" can contain "name-value pairs" known as "attributes";
    - And "a piece of content" that is enclosed within a "tag", is referred to as an HTML "element".

----
HTML "elements" always have:
    - opening tags;
    - content in the middle;
    - closing tags.

----
"Attributes" can provide additional information about the "element".
"Attributes" are included in the opening "tag".

----
"Elements" can be described in one of two ways:

    - Block-level elements:
        - Block-level elements starts on a new line in the document; 
        - Block-level elements take up their own space.
      For example, headings and paragraph tags.

    - Inline elements:
        - Inline elements do not start on a new line in the document;
        - Inline elements only take up necessary space;
        - Inline elements usually format the contents of block-level elements.
      For example, hyperlink and text format tags.


--------
How to use and implement HTML:

Because HTML is completely "text-based", an HTML file can be edited simply by opening it up in a program, such as:
    - Notepads++
    - Vi
    - Emacs

----
    - Any text editor can be used to create/edit an HTML file;
    - As long as an HTML file is named with an ".html" extension, any web browser (i.e., Chrome ,Firefox) will be capable of displaying the HTML file as a "Webpage".

----
For pofwssional software developers, there are a variety of "WYSIWYG" editors to develop "Webpages":
    - NetBeans
    - IntelliJ
    - Eclipse
    - Microsoft's Visual Studio
provide "WYSIWYG" editors as either "plugins" or as "standard components", makeing it incredibly easy to use and implement HTML.

These "WYSIWYG" editors also provide HTML "troubleshooting" facilities, although modern Web bowsers often contain Web developer "plugins" that will highlight problems with HTML pages, such as:
    - a missing closing tag;
    - syntax that does not create well-formed HTML.

----
Chrome and Firebox both include HTML developer tools, that allow for the immediate viewing of a Webpage's complete HTML file. Along with the ability to edit HTML on the fly, and immediately incorporate (include) changes with thw Internet browser.


--------
Pros and Cons of HTML:

Pros of using HTML include:
    - HTML is widely adopted with a large amount of "resources" available;
    - HTML is natively run on every "browser";
    - HTML is relatively "easy: to learn;
    - HTML has a "clean and consistent" source code;
    - HTML is "open source and free" to use;
    - HTML can be integrated with other "backend programming languages", such as "PHP".

Cons to consider are:
    - HTML doesn't have very dynamic functionality, and is mainly used for "static Web page";
    - HTML's all components must be created separately, even if they use similar elements;
    - Browser behavior can be unpredictable, for example, older browsers may not be compatible with newer features.


--------
How HTML works:

HTML is a "text file" containing specific syntax, file, and naming conventions (aggrement, contract), which show the computer and the Web server that it is in HTML and should be read as such.

By applying these HTML conventions to a text file in virtually any text editor, a user can write and design a basic Webpage, and then upload it to the Internet.

----
The most basic of HTML conventions is the inclusion of a "document type declaration" at the beginning of the text file.

This always comes first in the document, because it is the piece that affirmatively informs a computer, that this is an HTML file.

The document header typically looks like this:
    <!DOCTYPE html>

It should always be written that way, without any content inside it or breaking it up. Any content that comes before this declaration will not be recognized as HTM by a computer.


----
"Doctypes" are not just used for HTML. "Doctypes" can apply to the creation of any document that uses "SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language)".

SGML is a standard for specifying a specific "markup language" being used.

HTML is one of several markup languages that SGML and "doctype declarations" apply to.


----
The other critical requirement for creating an HTML file is saving it with a ".html" file extension.

Whereas the "doctype declaration" signals HTML to the computer from the "inside" of the file, the file extension signals HTML to the computer from the "outside" of the file. By having both, a computer can tell that it's an HTML file whether it's reading the file or not.

This becomes especially important when uploading the files to the Web. Because the Web server needs to know what to do with the files, before it can send them to a client computer for the "inner" contents to be read.


----
After wtiring the doctype and saving as an HTML file, a user can implement all the other "syntactic tool" of HTML to customize a Web page.

Once finished, they will likely have several HTML files corresponding to various pages of the website.

It's important that the user uploads these files in the same "hierarchy" that they saved them in, as each page references the specific "file paths" of the other pages, enabling "links" between them.

Uploading these HTML files in a different order will cause links to break and pages to be lost. Because the specified "file path" will not match the pages.


--------
HTML syntax standards:

In the following HRML example, there are two HTMl elements:
    - Both elements use the same "paragraph tag";
    - Both elements designated (select, choose)  with the "letter p";
    - Both elements use the "directional attribute dir";
    - Although a different attribute value is assigned to the HTML attribute's name-value pairing, namly "rtl" and "ltr".

----
Notice that when this HTML snippet (a small part, piece, or anything) is rendered (provide, give, supply) in a browser, the HTML "tags" impact how each HTML "element" is displayed on the page. But none of the HTML "tags" or "attributes" are displayed.

HTML simply describes how to render the content. The HTML itself is never displayed to the end user.

----
In order for a Web browser to display an HTML page without error, it must be provided with well-formed HTML.

    - To be well-formed, each HTML "element" must be contained within an "opening tag <p>" and a "closing tag </p>".
    - Furthermore, any new "tag" opened within "another tag" must be closed before the "containing tag" is closed.

So, for example:
    <h1><p>well formed HTML example</p><h1>
is well-formed HTML.


----
Another syntax rule is that HTML "attributes" should be enclosed within "single or double quotes ('") ".

There is often debate (arguments) about which format ('") is technically correct, but the World Wide Web Consortium asserts that both approaches are acceptable.

----
The best advice for choosing between single and double quotes ('") is to keep the usage consistent across all the documents.

HTML style-checkers can be used to enforce consistent use across pages.

It should be noted that sometimes using a single quotes (') is required, such as in an instance where "an attribute value actually contains a double quote character". The reverse is true as well.


----
It's important to note as well that the language HTML works with is basic English.

Non-English characters/letters, such as Chinese or special symbols (i.e. like letters with accent marks, such as Spanish letters) may not display correctlyon a Webpage by default.

In order to accommodate (aid, asist, serve) special character sets, user need to specify the "character encoding" with an element that looks like this:
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>

In this case, "utf-8" is the character set. "Utf-8" is HTML's default English "charset".


--------
Features of HTML5:

HTML5 introduces several elements to increase interactivity (multually active), multimedia capabilities, and semantic (expressive) efficiency.

----
Instead of using plugins, "multimedia" can be placed within the HTML code. These "elements" include:

    - Graphics elements:
        - <canvas>, which creates a "blank rectangular space" in which Web designers can draw using JavaScript.
        - <svg>, which is a "container for SVG (Scalable Vecter Graphics)".

    - Semantic elements:
        - <header>, which creates a "header at the top of the page".
        - <footer>, which creates a "footer at the bottom of the page".
        - <nav>, which creates a "navigation menu".
        - <article>, which creates an "area for independent content".
        - <section>, which defines "sections and subsections", such as chapters, or headers and footers when more than one are necessary.

    - Multimedia elements:
        - <audio>, which describes MP3 files, WAV files, and OGG files in HTML.
        - <video>, which describes MP4, WebM, and OGG video types.

    - Attributes that apply to the <form> element, which creates an "area for user input on the Web page".
        - These include: number, date, calendar, and range.


----
Other main features of HTML5 include:
    - Elimination of outmoded or redundant arrtibutes;
    - Offline editing;
    - The ability to drag and drop between HTML documents;
    - Messaging enhancements;
    - Detailed parsing;
    - MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) and protocol handler registration;
    - A common standard for storing data in SQL databases (Web SQL);
    - Application program interfaces (APIs) for complex applications;
    - Accommodation for mobile device app development;
    - MathML for mathematical and scientific formulas.

While the addition of these features represents an effort to support multimedia embedding, changes to the HTML specification demonstrate the desire of the community for HTML to return to its original purpose of "describingthe structure of content"

Basically, more "structural features" have been added, while several "format-centric features have been deprecated".

For the purpose of backward-compatibility, Web browsers will continue to support deprecated HTML tags, but eventually HTML will be mainly stucture-based.



--------
HTML, CSS and JavaScript:

HTML is used to create Webpages, but does experinece limitations when it comes to "fully responsive components".

Therefore, HTML should only be used to add text elementd and structure them within a page. For more complex features, HTML can be combined with CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) and JS (JavaScript).

----
An HTML file can link to a CSS or JS file.

Usually at the top of the document with ia specified file path, which will contain information about:
    - wihch colors to use;
    - which fonts to use;
and other HTML element rendering information.

JS also allows developers to include more "dynamic functionality", such as pop-up and photo sliders in a Webpage.

Tags called "class attributes" are used to match HTML elements to their corresponding CSS or JS elements.


----
For example, if a user wants the color of a certain amount of text to be red, they can write code in the CSS file with an accompanying "class attribute" that turns text red.

Then they can place the associated "class attribute" on all the pieces of text they want to be red in the HTML sheet.

The same basic method applies to JS sheets, with different functions.

----
Separating information about how a page is structured, the role of HTML; from the information about how a Webpage looks when it is rendered in a browser; is a software development pattern; and best practice known as "separation of concerns".







<EOF>
