This archive is based on: https://searchsoftwarequality.techtarget.com/definition/S-HTTP

--------
S-HTTP:

Secure HTTP (S-HTTP) is an extension to the HTTP. S-HTTP allows the secure exchange of files on the World Wide Web.

----
Each S-HTTP file is either encrypted; contains a digital certificate; or both.

For a given document, S-HTTP is an alternative to another well-known security protocol, Secure Socket Layer (SSL). A major difference is that:

    - S-HTTP allows the client to send a certificate to authenticate the user;
    - Using SSL, only the server can be authenticated.

S-HTTP is more likely to be used in situations where the server represents a bank, and requires authentication from the user that is more secure than a "userid" and "password".

----
S-HTTP does not use any single encryption system, but it dose support the Rivest-Shamir-Adleman public key infranstructure encryption system.

    - SSL works at a program layer slightly higher than the TCP level;
    - S-HTTP works at the even higher level of the HTTP application.

Both security protocols can be used by a browser user, but only one (S-HTTP) can be used with a given document.

----
Terisa Systems includes both SSL and S-HTTP in their Internet Security Tool Kits.

    - A number of popular "Web servers" support both SSL and S-HTTP;
    - Newer "browsers" support both SSL and S-HTTP.

S-HTTP has been submitted to the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) for consideration as a standard. Request for Comments (RCFs) Internet draft 2660 describes S-HTTP in detail.







<EOF>
