This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/Network-Address-Translation-NAT

--------
A Network Address Translation (NAT) is the virtualization of IP addresses.

    - NAT helps improve secutrity;
    - NAT decrease the number of IP addresses an organization needs.

----
NAT gateways sit between two networks, the "inside network" and the "outside network".

Systems on the inside networks are typically assigned IP addresses that cannot routed to external networks (e.g. netoworks in the 10.0.0.0/8 block). IANA has assigned several address ranges to be used to private networks:

    - Class A private address range: 10.0.0.0    to 10.255.255.255;
    - Class B private address range: 172.16.0.0  to 172.31.255.255;
    - Class C private address range: 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255.

(An IP address within these ranges is therefore considered non-routable, as it is not unique. Any private network that needs to use IP addresses internally can use any address within these ranges without any coordination with IANA or an Internet registry. Addresses within this private address space are only unique within a given private network. All addresses outside these ranges are considered public.)

    - A few external vaild IP addresses are assigned to the (NAT) gateway.

    - The gateway makes outbound traffic (go outside) from an inside system appear to be coming from one of the vaild external addresses.

    - The gateway takes incoming traffic (inbound) aimed at a vaild external address, and send it to the correct internal system.

This helps ensure security, since each outgoing/incoming request must go through a translation process that also offers the opportunity to qualify/authenticate incoming streams and match them to outgoing requests.

----
NAT conserves (keeps) the number of globally vaild IP addresses a company needs, and in combination with CIDR has done a lot to extend the useful life of IPv4 as a result.

NAT is described in general terms in IETF RFC 1631.


--------
The NAT mechanism, "natting", is a router feature. And it is often part of a corporate firewall.

NAT gateways can map IP addresses in several ways:
    - From a local IP address to one global IP address statically;
    - From a local IP address to any of a rotating pool of global IP addresses a company may have;
    - From a local IP address plus a particular TCP port to a global IP address or one in a pool of ports;
    - From a global IP address to any of a pool of local addresses on a round-robin basis.

In some cases, network adminstrators don't define simple mappings. Instead they define policies that allow the NAT gateway device to assigne mappings based on the intended destination; or on the protocal being used; or on other factors.

----
A newer role for NAT focuses on translating IPv4 addresses to IPv6, and vice versa (oppositely). To provide integration of IPv4 infrastructure/end-nodes into IPv6 environment, and allow IPv6 service to interact with IPv4 systems.



<EOF>

