This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/URL

--------
Uniform Resource Locator:

    - A URL is an unique identifier used to locate a resource on the Internet.
    - It is also referred to as a web address.

URLs consist of multiple parts, including a protocol and domain name, that tell a web browser how and where to retrive a resource.

End users use URLs by typing them directly into the address bar of a browser, or by clicking a hyperlink found on a webpage; bookmark list; in an e-mail; or from another application.

--------
How is a URL structured:

The URL contains the name of the protocol needed to access a resource, as well as a resource name.
    - The first part of a URL identifies what protocol to use as the primary access medium.
    - The second part identifies the IP address, or domian name, and possibly subdomain, where the resource is located.

----
URL protocols include:
    - "HTTP" and "HTTPS" for web resources;
    - "mail to" for e-mail addresses;
    - FTP for files on a File Transfer Protocol Server;
    - telnet for a session to access remote computers.

Most URL protocols are followed by a colon (:) and two forward slashes (/); "mail to" is followed only by a colon (:).

----
Optionally, after the domain, a URL can also specify:
    - a path to a specific page/file within a domain;
    - a network port to use to make the connection;
    - a specific reference point within a file, such as a named anchor in an HTML file;
    - a query or serach parameters used, commonly found in URLs for serach results.


--------
Parts of a URL:

Using the URL "https://whatis.techtarget.com/search/query?q=URL" as an example, components of a URL can include:

    - The protocol or scheme:
      Used to access a resource on the Internet.
      Protocols include "http", "https", "ftps", "mailto", and "file".
      The resource is searched through the domain name system (DNS) name.
      In this example, the protocol is "https".

    - Host name or domain name:
      The unique reference to represent a webpage.
      For this example, the domain name is "whatis.techtarget.com".

    - Port name:
      Usually not visible in URLs, but necessary.
      Always following a colon (:).
      Port 80 is the default port for web servers, but there are other options.

    - Path:
      A Path refers to a file or location on the web server.
      For this example, path is "serach/query".

    - Query:
      Found in the "URL of dynamic pages".
      The query consists of a question mark (?), followed by parameters.

    - Parameters:
      Pieces of information in a query string of a URL.
      Multiple parameters can be separated by ampersands (&).
      For this example, "q=URL" is the query parameter.

    - Frangment:
      This is an internal page reference, which refers to a section within the webpage.
      It appears at the end of a URL and begins with a hashtag (#).
      Although not in the example above, an example could be "#History" in the URL "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet#History".


--------
URL examples:
    https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/URL

When designing URLs, there are different theories about how to make the syntax most usable for readers and archivists. For example, in the URL's path, "dates", "authors", and "topics" can be included in a section referred to as the "slug".


--------
Importance of a URL design:

URLs can only be sent over the Internet using the ASCII character-set.

Because URLs often contain non-ASCII characters, the URL must be converted into a valid ASCII format. URL encoding replaces unsafe ASCII characters with a "%" followed by "two hexadecimal digits".

URLs cannot contain spaces.


--------
Other examples of parts of a URL can include:

    - "mailto:president@whitehouse.gov"
      This URL initiates a new e-mail addressed to the Mailbox "president" in the Domain "whitehouse.gov".

    - "ftp://www.companyname.com/whitepapers/widgets.ps"
      This URL specifics the use of the FTP protocol to download a file.


--------
URL history:

The retention of data related to Web usage has become a huge privacy concern. There has been increased public demand for serach engine and application service providers to be transparent in what information they collect, retain, and sell.

For example, in March 2019, Google updated its Chorme privacy policy. It notes that in its basic broswer mode, the serach engine stores information locally on your system. This information includes:
    - browsing history;
    - URLs of pages visited;
    - a cache of text, images, and other resources from those pages.

However, Google also collects and retains data for various lengths of time. Some data can be deleted whenever a person wants, some data is deleted automatically, and some data Google retains for longer periods of time when necessary.


--------
URL shorteners:

URL shortening is a technique in which an URL may be made substantially shorter in length, and stll direct to the required page. A shortener archive this using a redirect on a domain name that is short.

There are many URL shortener services available. While many are free, those that offer capabilities such as Web analytics, charge a fee. Companies that offer URL shorteners include Rebrandly, Bitly, Ow.ly, clicky.me, Budurl.com.

Some Web site hosts, such as "GoDaddy.com" offer URL shorteners. Other service providers, including search engine have begin turning away from URL shorteners. Because they are often subject to abuse by spammers, who hide malware inside shortened URLs.


--------
URL v.s. URI

A URL is the most common type of URI.

    - URIs are strings of characters used to identify a resource over a network.
      [web link: https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/URI-Uniform-Resource-Identifier]

    - URLs are essential to navigating the Internet.


--------
HTTP v.s. HTTPS

Both HTTP and HTTPS are used to retrive data from a web server, to view content in a browser.

The difference between them is that HTTPS uses a Secure Socket Layer (SSL) certificate to encrypt the connection between the end user and the server.

HTTPS is vital to protecting sensitive information, such as passwords, credit card numbers, and identity data from unauthorized access.

HTTPS uses TCP/IP port number 443 by default, whereas HTTP uses port 80.


=========
[web link: https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/dynamic-URL]

Dynamic URL:

A dynamic URL is the address (URL) of a Web page with content that depends on variable parameters that are provided to the server that delivers it.

The parameters may be already present in the URL itself, or they may be the result of user input.

A dynamic URL can often be recognized by the presence of certain characters, or character strings that appear in the URL visible in the address bar of your browser. The following are representative:
    & $ + = ? % cgi

----
Some search engines do not index dynamic URLs.

This is because the search engine may see a huge sequence of Web pages as it spiders the dynamic URLs, the contents of which keep changing, makes it look like a different URL. This is called a spider trap.

The more sophosticated (worldly) search engines, such as Google, index dynamic URLs as long as the information is market specific and content rich.

The best way to ensure that a Web site is indexed on the largest possible number of search engines is to include at least one significant page that is represented by a static URL, in which the contents do not change unless the HTML code is rewritten.


========
[web link: https://www.cnblogs.com/zhao1949/p/5545064.html]

http协议中的编码和解码:

    - 由于URL是采用ASCII字符集进行编码的，所以如果URL中含有非ASCII字符集中的字符，那就需要对其进行编码。
    - 由于URL中好多字符是保留字，他们在URL中具有特殊的含义。如“&”表示参数分隔符，如果想要在URL中使用这些保留字，那就得对他们进行编码。

据2005年发布的RFC3986“%编码”规范:
    - 对URL中属于ASCII字符集的非保留字不做编码;
    - 对URL中的保留字需要取其ASCII内码，然后加上“%”前缀将该字符进行替换（编码）;
    - 对于URL中的非ASCII字符需要取其Unicode内码，然后加上“%”前缀将该字符进行替换（编码）
由于这种编码是采用“%”加上字符内码的方式，所以，有些地方也称其为“百分号编码”。

虽然“百分号编码”对URL的编码方式做了详细的规定，但是实践中，浏览器对于URL的编码方式还是存在一些差异（主要表现在对非ASCII字符编码的差异）






<EOF>
