This archive is based on: https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/XML-Extensible-Markup-Language

--------
XML:

Extensible Markup Language (XML) is used to describe data.

The XML standard is a flexible way to "create information formats" and "electronically share structured data" via the public Internet, as well as via corporate networks.

----
XML code, a formal recommendation from the W3C (Wordld Wide Web Consortium), is similar to HTML.

Both XML and HTML contain markup symbols to describe "page" or "file contents".


----
XML data is known as "self-describing" or "self-defining", meaning that the "structure of the data" is embedded with the data. Thus, when the data arrives there is no need to pre-build the structure to stor the data, it is "dynamiclly" understood within the XML.

----
The XML format can be used by any individual, or group of individuals, or companies that want to share information in a consistent way.


----
XML is actually a simpler and easier-to-use subset of SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language), which is the standard to create a "document structure".


--------
The "basic" building block of an XML document is an "element", defined by "tags":
    - An "element" has a beginning and an ending "tag".
    - All elements in an XML document are contained in an outermost (farthest from the center) element, known as the "root element".

----
XML can also support "nested elements", or elements within elements.

This ability allows XML to support hierarchinal structure:
    - Element names describe the content of the elements;
    - The structure describes the relationshop between the elements.


--------
An XML document is considered to be "well-formed". That is, able to be read and understood by an XML parser:
    - if its format complies with the XML specification;
    - if it is properly marked up;
    - if elements are properly nested.


----
XML also supports the ability to define "attributes" for "elements", and describe "characteristics" of the "elements" in the "beginning tag" of an element.

For example, XML document as the following:
    <?xml version="1.0" standalone="yes"?>
    <conversation>
        <greeting>Hello, world!</greeting>
        <response>Stop the planet, I want to get off!</response>
    </conversation>


--------
Applications for XML are endless.

For example, computer makers might agree upon "a standard/common way" to:
    - describe the "information" about a computer product. Such as processor speed, memory size, and so forth.
    - and then describe the "product information format" with XML code.

Such a standard way of describing date, would enable a user to send an "intelligent agent (i.e. a program)" to each computer maker's Web site:
    - gather data;
    - and then make a valid comparison.


--------
XML's benefits sometimes appeared revolutionary in scope, shortly after it was introduced. However, as a concept, it fell short of being revolutionary. It also fell short of being the panacea (cure everthing).

The over-application of XML in so many areas of technology diminished (make smaller or less) its real value, and the results in great deal of unnecessary confusion.

Perhaps most demaging is the predictable behavior of many venders that look to recast XML using their own set of proprietary extensions. Although some (venders) want to add value to XML, others seek only to lock in users to their products.


--------
XML's power reside (live in, inhabit) in its simplicity.

It can take large chunks of information and consolidate (strengthen, stablize) them into an XML document, meaningful pieces that provide structure and organization to the information.




<EOF>
