This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/port-number

--------
Port number:

A port number is a way to identify a "specific process", to which an Internet/other network message is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server.

For TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Dategram Protocol), a port number is a 16-bit "integer" that is put in the header appended to a message unit.
    - This port number is passed "logically" between client and server transport layers;
    - It is passed "physically" between the Transport Layer and the Internet Protocol Layer and forwarded on.

----
For example, a request from a client (perhaps on behalf of you at your PC) to a server on the Internet may request a file be served from that host's File Transfer Protocol (FTP) server or process.

In order to pass your request to the FTP process in the remote server, the TCP software layer in your computer identifies the "port number" of "21", which by convention is associated with an FTP request, in the "16-bit port number integer" that is appended to your "request" to the FTP program at the server.

At the server, the TCP software layer will "read" the port number of "21" and forward the request to the FTP program at the server.

----
Some services/processes have conventionally assigned "permanent" port numbers. These are known as "well-known port numbers".

In other cases, a port number is assigned "temporarily" for the duration of the request and its completion from a range of assigned port numbers. This is called an "ephemeral" port number.


=========
[web link: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/well-known-port-numbers]

Well-known port numbers:

The well-known port numbers are the port numbers that are reserved for assignment by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) for use by the "application end points" that communicate using the Internet's TCP or UDP.

Before the arrival of ICANN, the well-known port numbers were administered by the Internet Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).

----
Each kind of application has a designated port number (well-known port number). For example:
    - A remote job entry application has the port number of "5";
    - The HTTP application has the port number of "80";
    - The POP3 application (commonly used for e-mail delivery) has the port number of "110";

When one application communicates with another application at another host computer on the Internet, it specifies that "application" in each data transmission by using its "port number".

    - The "well-known ports" cover the range of possible port numbers from 0 through 1023;

    - The "registered ports" are numbered from 1024 through 49151;

    - The remaining ports, referred to as "dynamic/private ports", are numbered from 49152 through 65535.

----
On most systems, a well-known port number can only be used by a system (root) process; or by a program run by a privileged user.


========
[web link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/registered-port]

Registered Port:

Registered port number in the 1,024 through 49,151 range reflect network service provided by a particular hardware/software developer's products.

E.g., the value 1,512 was registered by Microsoft for use by its NetBIOS Name Services implementation, commonly known as Windows Internet Name Services (WINS).





<EOF>
