This archive is based on: https://searchunifiedcommunications.techtarget.com/definition/Internet-Protocol

--------
The Internal Protocal (IP) is the Method or Protocol by which Data is sent from one computer to another on the Internet.

Each computer which known as a "Host" on the Internet has at least one IP Address, that uniquely identifies it from all other computers on the Internet.

--------
    - When you send or receive Data (for example, an e-mail note or a web page), the "Message" gets divided into little chunks called "Packates".

    - Each of these Packets contains both the sender's Internet Address and the receiver's address. Any Packet is sent first to a "Gateway" computer that understands a small part of the Internet.

    - The Gateway Computer reads the Destination Address and forwards the packet to an "Adjacent Gateway" that in turn reads the Destination Address.

    - And so forth across the Internet until one "Gateway" recongnizes the Packet, as belonging to a computer (i.e. Host) within its "Immediate Neighborhood" or "Domain". That Gateway then forwards the "Packet" directly to the computer whose address is specified.

--------
    - Because a "Message" is divided into a number of packets, each "Packet" can, if necessary, be sent by a different "Route" accross the Internet. 

    - Packets can arrive in a different order than the order they were sent in.

    - The Internet Protocol (IP) just delivers them. It's up to another protocol, the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) to put them back in the right order. (Together, it's TCP/IP)

--------
Internet Protocol (IP) is a connectionless protocol, which means that there is no continuing connection between the End Points that are communicating. Each packet that travels through the Internet is treated as an independent unit of Data without any relation to any other unit of Data.

The reason the packets do get put in the right order is because of the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), the connection-oriented protocol that keeps track of the Packet Sequence in a message.

In the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) communication model, Internet Protocol (IP) is in Layer 3, AKA, the Networking Layer.

--------
The most widely used version of IP today is Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4). However, Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) is also beginning to be supported. IPv6 provides for much longer addresses and therefore for the possibility of many more Internet users. IPv6 includes the capabilities of IPv4, and any server that can support IPv6 packets can also support IPv4 packets.

========
Transmission Control Protocol:
[web link: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/TCP]

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a standard that defines how to "Establish" and "Maintain" a network conversation through which application programs can exchange date.

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send Packets of data to each other. Together, TCP and IP are the basic rules defining the Internet.

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) defines TCP in the Request for Comment (RFC) standards document number 793.

--------
How TCP works:

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a connection-oriented protocol, which means a connection is established and maintained until the application programs at EACH end have finished exchanging messages.

    - TCP determines how to break application data into packets that networks can deliver;
    - TCP sends packets to and accepts packets from the Network Layer (i.e. Layer 3, use Internet Protocl);
    - TCP manages Flow Control;
    - TCP handles retransmission of dropped or garbled packets (because it is meant to provide error-free data transmission);
    - TCP acknowledges all packets that arrive.a

In the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) communication model, TCP covers parts of Layer 4 (i.e. the Transport Layer), and parts of Layer 5 (i.e. the Session Layer).
 
--------
For example, when a Web Server sends an HTML file to a client, it uses the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) to do so.

    - The HTTP program layer asks the TCP layer to set up the connection and send the file (i.e. the IP layer).

    - The TCP stack devides the file into data packets;
      numbers these data Packets;
      and then forwards them individually to the IP layer for delivery.

Although each packet in the transmission has the same Source and Destination IP address, packets may be sent along multiple routes.

    - The TCP layer in the client computer waits until all the packets have arrived;
      TCP layer then ackownledges those it receives;
      TCP layer asks for the re-transmisstion of any it dose not receives (based on missing packet numbers).

    - The TCP layer then assembles the packets into a file;
      and deliver the file to the receiving application.

--------
This process of error detection -- making retransmissions and reordering packets after they arrive -- can introduce "lantency" in a Transmission ContrOl Protocol (TCP) stream.

    - Highly time-sensitive applications such as Voice over IP (VoIP);
    - Streaming Video, and Gaming generally rely on a transport process such as User Datagram Protocol (UDP), because it reduces "lantency" and "jitter" by not worrying about reording packets or getting missing data re-transmitted.

--------
User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is classified as a datagram protocol, or Connectionless Protocol. Because it has no way of detecting whether or not both applications have finished their back-and-forth communication.

Instead of correcting invalid data packets, as TCP dose, UDP simply discard those packets and defers to the Application Layer for more detailed Error Detection.

--------
What TCP is used for:

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is used for organizing data in a way that ensures the secure tramsmission between the server and client.

TCP guarantees the Integrity of data sent over the network, regardless of the amount.

For this reason, it is used to transmit data from other Higher-level Protocols that require all transmitted data to arrive. Examples include:

    - Secure Shell (SSH);
      File Transfer Protocol (FTP);
      Telnet:
    - For peer-to-peer file sharing, in Telnet's case, logging into another user's computer to access a file.

    - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP);
      Post Office Protocl (POP);
      Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP):
    - For sending and receiving e-mail.

    - Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP):
    - For web accsee.
 
These examples all exist at the Application Layer of the "TCP/IP stack", and send data downwards to TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) on the Transport Layer.

--------
TCP is important because it establishs the rules and standard procedures for the way information is communicated over the Internet.

TCP is the fundation for the Internet as it exists today and ensures that data transmassion is carried out uniformly, regardless of the location, hardware, or software involved.

For this reason, it is flexible and highly scalable, meaning new protocols can be introduced to it and it will accommodate them.

TCP is also nonproprietary, meaning no one person or company owns it.


----
Location in the TCP/IP stack:

TCP exists in the Transport Layer with other protocols such as UDP. Protocols in this layer ensure the error free transmission of data to the source, except for UDP (it has more limitied error checking capability).


<EOF>




