This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/packet

--------
A packet is the unit of data that is routed between an origin and a destination on the internet or any other packet-switched network.

Network packets are small amounts of data passed over TCP/IP networks (e.g. around 1.5 KBS for Ethernet packets; and 64 KBS for IP packet payloads).

As an example, e-mails and Web Pages will make use of network packets to send information back and forth to the user and recipients. The goal of a network packet is to send information reliably so data dose not have to be sent as a single large file.

Each packet sent includes information such as the source and destination, the protocols or identifications.

--------
How network packets work:

    - When any file (i.e. an E-mail message, HTML file, GIF file, or URL request) is sent from one place to another on the Internet, the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) layer of TCP/IP divides the file into "chunks" of an efficient size for routing.

    - Each of these packets is separately "numbered" and includes the Internet address of the destination.

    - The individual packets for a given file may travel different routes through the Internet. When they have all arrived, they are reassembled into the original file by the TCP layer at the receving end.


----
A packet-switching scheme is an efficient way to handle transmission on a connection-less network such as Internet.

There is an alternative scheme, circuit-switched, is used for networks allocated for voice connections.

In circuit-switching, lines in the network are shared among many users as with packet-switching, but each connection requires the dedication of a particular path for the duration of the connection.


----
"Packet" and "Datagram" are similar in meaning. User Datagram Protocol (UDP) uses the term "datagram".


--------
Parts of a network packet:

Network packets are made up of three different parts:
    - the header;
    - the payload;
    - the trailer.

Network packets can be thought of conceptually to postal packages. The header is the box/envelops, the payload is the box/envelope's content, and the trailer is the signature.

----
A payload is the actual data being sent. Trailers, also called the footer, are the bits wihich signify the end of a packet.

----
Broken down even further, the header may consist of the following pieces:
    - the internet protocol;
    - the size of the header and payload;
    - the source and destination address;
    - a sixteen-bit identification number;
    - flags, which are used to let a router know if it can fragment a packet;
    - fragment offsets, which reconstructs fragmented packets;
    - the time to live (TTL);
    - a checksum, which detects errors;
    - the number of hops a packet can make.


<EOF>

