This archive is based on: https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/perfect-forward-secrecy

--------
PFS:

Prefect Forward Secrecy (PFS), also known as Forward Secrecy. PFS is an encryption style, known for producing "temporary private key" exchanges between clients and servers.

----
For every individual session initiated by a user, a unique "session key" is generated.

If one of these "session keys" is compromised (unable to function optimally), data from any other session will not be affected. Therefore, past sessions and the information within them are protected from any future attacks.

----
Without PFS, a user initiates a communication session with a client, and the entire conversation is encrypted based on the client's special key. However, the client uses the same special key to generate encryption for all of its sessions, and if it becomes compromised, so dose all of the information contained within each conversation.

With PFS, every communication session generates a unique "encryption key" that is separate from the "special key", private and only lasts for the duration of the session. If an attacker were to compromise the unique "encryption key", only that specific conversation would be leaked.

----
Protecting data on the Transport Layer of a network, PFS has become a security standard for developers to implement into messaging services or websites that are didacated to user privacy.

Tools applying this feature can change "encryption keys" as frequently as every text message, phone call, or page refresh.

----
Recently, IETF has published the Transport Layer Security Standard to mandate PFS for all TLS (1.1 - 1.3) sessions.


--------
Heartbleed and PFS:

PFS became more of an interest after the introduction of the Heartbleed bug to OpenSSL in 2012. The vulnerability is a result of an insufficient "input validation" in the utilization of the "TLS heartbeat extension".

Heartbleed is known as a "buffer over-read" vulnerability. It would allow the user to read more data than allowed, leaking an entire chain of information up to 64 kilobytes.

----
While Heartbleed has been publicly disclosed since 2014, it proved the simplicity of an OpenSSL attack, and sparked the conversation around "temporary method of key exchange". Thus, PFS became a viable solution for protecting users from similar code defects.


--------
PFS in use:

PFS has become widely adopted by information providers since its inception, and is known as a crucial sercurity feature.

Signal, a messaging protocol for end-to-end encryption, found in:
    - WhatsApp;
    - Google Allo messenger;
    - Facebook conversations;
popularized PFS.

Known as the "double ratchet" system, "Signal" creates a new "encryption key" with every single message. Most recently, it also introduced a feature that enables messages to self-destruct.

    - In 2011, Google provided Gmail, Google Docs, and encrypted search users with PFS by default;
    - Twitter has offered PFS to all users since 2013;
    - Applw announced in 2016 a new, mandatory protocol for all "iOS" apps requiring the use of App Transport Security (i.e., a security feature that utilizes PFS).
 




<EOF>
