This archive is based on: https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/variable-length-subnet-mask

--------
Variable-length subnet mask (VLSM) amounts to "Subnetting subnets".

Means that VLSM allows network engineers to devide an IP address space into a hierarchy of subnets of different size, making it possible to create subnets with very different host counts without wasting large numbers of addresses.

----
A subnet mask defines the size of the subnet (the number of host addresses in the subnet).

Fixed-Length Subnet Mask (FLSM) creates subnets all the same size. However, where some subnets will have many hosts and some have few, FLSM results in some subnets having many orphaned addresses, or some sets of hosts being too big to fit into a subnet.

Where VLSM is enabled, a large subnet can be divided into a set of smaller sub-subnets, which can be used to handle smaller sets of hosts.

----
For example, consider a traditional Class C address space like 192.168.1.0/24 (default subnet mask is 255.255.255.0) and an organization with four groups of computers:
    - the data center with 75 hosts;
    - the call center with 50 hosts;
    - the operation floor with 25 hosts;
    - the excutive floor with 20 hosts;
In total, 20 + 25 + 50 + 75 = 170 hosts.

Under fixed subnetting, dividing the 255 host addresses available into 4 subnets would support only 62 hosts each (exclude the subnet identifier and broadcast address), not meeting the needs of the data center (75) and vastly oversupplying addresses for operations and the execs.

Using VLSM, the space is first split in 2, with each subnet able to address 126 hosts:
    - One subnet covers the data center (126 addresses for 75 hosts);
    - The other subnet is split in 2, supplying two sub-subnets of 62 hosts;
        - One sub-subnets covers the contact center (62 addresses for 50 hosts);
        - The other sub-subnet is split in 2 once more, creating two 30-host sub-sub-subets;
            - One sub-sub-subnet covers operation (30 addresses for 25 hosts);
            - The other covers executives (30 addresses for 20 hosts).

----
In order to use VLSM, a network adminstrator must use a "routing protocol" that supports it, such as:
    - Routing Information Protocol v2 (RIPv2);
    - Open Shortest Path First (OSPF);
    - Intermediate System-to-Intermediate System (IS-IS);
    - Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP);
    - Border Gateway Protocol (BBGP).

----
VLSM is similar in concept and intent to Classes Inter Domain Routing (CIDR), which allows a single Internet Domain to have an address space that dose not fit into traditional address classes.

VLSM was originally defined in IETF RFC 1812.


<EOF>

