web link: https://blog.csdn.net/mid_Faker/article/details/106086605
web link: https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/uml-diagram-templates
web link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38293030/break-stop-execution-in-uml-sequence-diagram-mid-way-inside-alt-opt
web link: https://blog.csdn.net/zh_weir/article/details/72675013 [suggested]






PlantUML_Language_Reference_Guide_en.pdf


@Code example : maybe in the oneDrive


+-----+-----+-----+-----+
break / stop execution in UML sequence diagram mid-way inside alt / opt




There are three options for this situation. Each of them I illustrate with a diagram showing how the respective combined fragment should be used. The actual behaviour is hidden with interaction references (normalFlow for a flow that should normally be executed and breakFlow for any flow that should happen in case of a required break).

The first solution is the most convenient one - it exactly covers your case and you can also use the positive version of a break guard. However each of them provide you a valid possibility.

Break combined fragment
When a break combined fragment is met and its guard condition is true, only this fragment is still executed and then the execution of the interaction (flow) stops. If the condition is not met, the combined fragment is omitted and the normal flow continues. This is exactly the case you describe. In this case you would put the messages that shouldn't be executed in case of a break condition after the break combined fragment.

enter image description here

Opt combined fragment
When an opt combined fragment is met it executes only if a guard condition is true. The rest of a flow continues regardless of the condition. You can put the part of the flow that is continued only if the break condition is not met inside the opt combined fragment. The opt fragment should have a guard that is opposite to the condition at which the flow should stop. If any additional actions should happen in case of a break, they should be put after the opt combined fragment.

enter image description here

Alt combined fragment
When an alt combined fragment is met its guard conditions are evaluated and only the eventual one fragment which guard evaluates to true is executed. There might be also a situation when none of the guards evaluate to true and no fragment is executed in such case. Whatever flow is after the combined fragment is executed normally anyway. In this case you would preferably put two fragments, one with the correct operation guard and the second one with a condition that should cause a break. Put the normal flow in the first fragment and whatever should happen in case of a break in the second fragment.



@image description!! 


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
时序图（Sequence Diagram），又名序列图、循序图、顺序图，是一种UML交互图。它通过描述对象之间发送消息的时间顺序显示多个对象之间的动态协作。它可以表示用例的行为顺序，当执行一个用例行为时，其中的每条消息对应一个类操作或状态机中引起转换的触发事件。

PlantUML使用->箭头将一条消息连接两个对象（参与者）。对象本身不需要特别声明。如果想使用虚线箭头，则使用–>。箭头方向调转<-和<–也是可以正常使用的。使用反向箭头画出的图形不会有变化，只是文档更易于理解。需要注意的是，反向箭头只在时序图中可以这样使用，在其他Plant UML的时序图中则含义不完全相同。

我们可以试着写一个基本的例子：
————————————————
版权声明：本文为CSDN博主「囧虎科技宅」的原创文章，遵循CC 4.0 BY-SA版权协议，转载请附上原文出处链接及本声明。
原文链接：https://blog.csdn.net/zh_weir/java/article/details/72675013




@startuml

张三 -> 李四 : 我要借钱
李四 --> 张三 : 借给你
张三 -> 李四 : 我要还钱
李四 --> 张三 : 收到欠款

@enduml



