This archive is based on: https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/digital-certificate

--------
A digital certificate, also known as a public key certificate.

A digital certificate is used to cryptographically link ownership of a public key with the entity that own it (i.e. this public key).

Digital Certificates are for sharing public keys to be used for encryption and authentication. Digital Certificate include the public key being certified, identifying information about the entity that owns the public key, metedata relating to the digital certificate, and a digital signature of the public key which is created by the issuer of the certificate.

--------
The distribution, authentication and revocation of digital certificates are the primary purposes of the Public Key Infranstructure (PKI), the system by which public keys are distributed and authenticated.

--------
Public Key crypotography depends on key pairs: one a private key to be held by the owner and used for signing and decrypting, and one a public key that can be used for encryption of data sent to the public key owner or authentication of the certificate holder's signed data. The digital certificate enables entities to share their public key in a way that can be authenticated.

--------
Digital certificates are used in public key cryptography functions; they are most commonly used for initializing secure SSL connections between web browsers and web servers. Digital Certificates are also used for sharing keys to be used for public key encryption and authentication of digital signatures.

[for SSL, i.e. keyStore/trustStore]
[SSL, see web link: https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/Secure-Sockets-Layer-SSL]

Digital certificates are used by all major Web Browsers and Web Servers to provide assurance that published content has not been modified by any unauthorized actors, and to share keys for encrypting and decrypting Web Content. Digital certificates are also used in other contexts, both online and offline, for providing cryptographic assurance and privacy of data.

-------
Who can issue a digital certificate?

While it is possible for an entity to create its own Public Key Infranstruce (PKI) and issue its own digital certificate -- And in some cases this approach might be reasonable, for example when an organization maintains its own PKI to issue certificates for its own internal use --, the vast majority of digital certificates are issued by a Certificate Authority (CA).

CAs are considered trusted third parties in the context of a PKI; using a trusted third party to issue digital certificates enables individuals to extend their trust in the CA to the trustworthiness of the digital certificates that it issues.

--------
Difference between Digital Certificate and Digital Signature:

Public Key cryptography enables a number of different functions, including both encryption and authentication. A digital signature is another one of those functions enabled by public key cryptography; digital signatures are generated using algorithms for signing of data, with result that recipient can irrefutably comfirm that the data was signed by the holder of a particular public key.

Digital Signatures are generated by hashing the data signed with a one-way cryptogtaphy hash; the result is them encrypted with the signer's private key. The digital signature incorporates this encrypted hash, which can only be authenticated (verified) by using the sender's pubilc key to decrypt the digital signature, and then running the same one-way hashing algorithm on the content that was signed. The two hashes can then be compared, and if they match it proves that the data was unchanged from when it was signed; and that the sender is the owner of the public key pair used to sign it.

In general, a digital signature can depend on the distribution of a public key (the public key is in the form of a digital certificate, but it is not mandatory that the public key be transmitted in that form.

However, digital certificates themselves are signed digitally, and they should not be trusted unless the signature can be verified.

--------
Types of digital certificates:

There are three different types of digital certificates used by Web Servers and Web browswes to authenticate over the internet. These digital certificates are used to link a Web Server for a Domain to the individual or organization that owns the Domain.

These certificates are usually referred to as SSL Certificates, even though the SSL protocol has been superseded by the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol.

[SSL是Netscape开发的专门用户保护Web通讯的，目前版本为3.0。最新版本的TLS 1.0是IETF(工程任务组)制定的一种新的协议，它建立在SSL 3.0协议规范之上，是SSL 3.0的后续版本。两者差别极小，可以理解为SSL 3.1，它是写入了RFC的。]

Domain Validation (DV SSL) - 
    Domain Validation Certificates offers the least amount of assurance about the holder of the certificate.
    Applicants for domian validation certificates  (DV SSL) need only demonstrate that they have the right to use the domain name.
    Whlie these certificates can give assurance that data is being sent and receives by the holder of the certificate, they give no guarantees about who that entity is.
    [i.e. Who gets certificate, who gets domain.]

Organzation Validation (OV SSL) -
    Organzation Validation Certifications provide addtional assurances about the holder of the certificate;
    In addtion to confirming that the applicant has the right to use the domain (DV SSL), organization validation certificate applicants undergo additional confirmation of theif ownership of the domain.
    [i.e. Organization owns certificate,  they can use the domain.]

Extended Validation (EV SSL) -
    Extended Validation Certificates are issued only after the applicant is able to prove their identity to the satisfaction of the CA.
    The vetting process includes verfication of the existence of the entity applying for the certificate, verfying that identity matches official records, verfying that the entity is authorized to use the domain, and confirming that the owner of the domain has authorized the issuance of the certificate.

These types of the SSL certificates (i.e. digital certificates) are available from CAs for Web Domains, though the exact methods and criteria for these certificates are evolving, as the CA indistry adapts to new conditions and applications.

--------
In addition to SSL certificates (i.e, digital certificates), there are other types of digital certificates used for other purposes.

They are as follows:
    Code Signing Certificates may be issued to organizations or individuals who publish software.
    These certificates are used to share public keys that sign software code, including patches and software updates.
    Code Signing Certificates certify the authenticity of the signed code.

--------
Client Certificates, also called a digital ID.

Client Certificates are issued to individuals in order to bind their identity to public key in the certificate.
Individuals can use these certificates to digitally sign messages or other data;
Individuals can also use their private keys to encrypt data which recipients can decrypt using the public key in the client certificate.






========
[web link: https://blog.csdn.net/andy_zhang2007/article/details/78805578]

Truststore 和 Keystore的性质是一样的，都是存放 key 的一个仓库, Java中都可以通过 keytool 来管理.

--------
KeyStore - 
    一个KeyStore文件可以包含私钥(private key)和关联的证书(certificate)或者一个证书链。证书链由客户端证书和一个或者多个CA证书。

    因为 KeyStore 文件既可以存储敏感信息，比如密码和私钥，也可以存储公开信息比如公钥，证书之类，所有实际上来讲，可以将KeyStore文件同样用做TrustStore文件,但这样做要确保使用者很明确自己永远不会将该KeyStore误当作TrustStore传播出去。

--------
TrustStore -
    一个TrustStore仅仅用来包含客户端信任的证书，所以，这是一个客户端***所信任的来自其他人或者组织的信息***的存储文件,而不能用于存储任何安全敏感信息，比如私钥(private key)或者密码。

    客户端通常会包含一些大的CA机构的证书，这样当遇到新的证书时，客户端就可以使用这些CA机构的证书来验证这些新来的证书是否是合法的。




========
[web link: https://www.baeldung.com/java-keystore-truststore-difference]

--------
Java KeyStore -

A Java Keystore stores private key entries, certificates with public keys, or just secret keys that we may use for various cryptographic purposes. It stores each by an alias for ease of lookup.

Generally speaking. Keystores hold keys that our applicatio owns, that we can use to prove the integrity of a message and the authenticity of the  sender. Say by signing Payloads.

Usually, we'll use a Keystore when we are a server and want to use HTTPS.
During asb SSL handshake, the server looks up the private key from the keystore, and presents its corresponding public key and certificate to the client.
Correspondingly, if the client also needs to authenticate itself - a situation called Mutual Authentication - then the client also has a keystore and also presents its public key and certificate.

There's no default keystore, so if we want to use an encrypted channel, we'll have to set javax.net.ssl.keyStore and javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword. If our keystore format is different than the default, we could use javax.net.ssl.keyStoreType to customize it.

Of course, we can use these keys to service other needs as well.
Private keys can sign or decrypt data, and public keys can verify or encrypt data ( Asymmetric Cryptography). Secret keys can perform these functions as well (Symmetric Cryptography). A keystore is a place that we can hold onto these keys.

--------
Java TrustStore -

A truststore is the opposite - while a keystore typically holds onto certificates that identity us, a truststore holds onto certificates that identity others.

In Java, we use a truststore to trust the third party we're about to comminicate with.
Take our earlier example. If a client talks to a Java-based server over HTTPS, the server will look up the assosiated key from its keystore, then server present the public key and certificate to the client. 

We, the client, then look up the associated certificate in our truststore.
If the certificate or Certifivate Authorities (CA) presented by the extenal server is not in our truststore, we'll get an SSLHandshakeException and the connection won't be set up successfully.











































