This archive is based on: https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/checksum

------
A checksum is a value that represents the number of bits in a transmission message and is used by IT professionsls to detect high-level errors within transmissions. Prior to transmission, every piece of data or file can be assigned a checksum value after running a crypotography hash functuin.
[Hash algorithm example - MD5,
see web link: https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/MD5]

The term checksum is also sometimes seem as hash sum or hash value.
[i.e. Hash value of data calculated by sender and receiver, compare them to see if error occurs in transmission.]

Checksums work by giving the party on the receiving end information about the transmission to make sure that the full range of data is fully delivered. The checksum value itself is typically a long string of letters and numbers that act as a sort of fingerprint for a file, or set of files, to indicate the number of bits included in the transmission.

If the checksum value calculated by the end user is even slightly different from the original checksum value of the file, it can alert all parties in the transmission that the file was corrupted or tampered with by a third party. From there, the receiver can investigate what went wrong or try re-downloading the file.

The common protocols used to determine checksum numbers are the transmission control protocol (TCP) and the user diagram protocol (UDP). TCP is typically more reliable for tracking transmitted packets of data, but UDP may be beneficial to avoid slowing down transmission time.

--------
What can cause an inconsistent checksum number?

While checksum values that do not match can signal something went wrong during transmission, a few factors can cause this to happen, such as:
    - An interruption in the internet or network connection;
    - Storage or space issues including problems with the hard drive;
    - A corruption disk or corrupted file;
    - A third party interfering with the transfer of data.

--------
Common types of checksum algorithms:

There are multiple crypotogtaphic hash functions that programmers can use to generate checksum values. A few common ones include:

SHA-0:
    This hash function was the first of its kind and it was withdrawn shortly after its creation in 1993.

SHA-1:
    This hash function was no longer considered secure as of 2010.

SHA-2 (SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512):
    This family of hash functions relies on sounds and numbers to create a checksum value. The resultant checksums are vulnerable to length extension attacks, which involve a hacker reconstructing the internal state of a file by learning its hash digest.

[Hash Length Extension Attacks, see: https://www.freebuf.com/articles/web/31756.html --> SUGGESTED!]
[尽管仍有一些疯狂的人类在写自己的加密算法，绝大多数人已经渐渐发现自己写加密算法不是什么好主意。
然而，不单纯的套用公开的加密算法也是有其意义的，前提是你能够正确的使用这些加密算法。
除非你彻底吃透你使用的加密算法的原理，并懂得如何正确使用，否则还是直接用那些经过了专业级审查的高级算法库要安全些。]

MD5:
    This hash function creates a checksum value, but each file will not necessarily have a unique number, so it is open to vulnerabilities if a hacker swaps out a file with the same checksum value.

[MD5 hash algorithm, see https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/MD5]



































